Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you very much for your participating. As I already said,
thank you for all your time and effort and for the progress of so many things and to come
or participating. Thank you very much for your beautiful dedication to Dharma. And today,
again, I'm going to continue to talk about teachings on the H.H. Dudjom Rinpoche, which
is the simple, direct, but yet so powerful, essence teaching of the entire Buddhas for
the practitioners, those who like to be practices. It really has everything. So I'm going to
go through this as we've been doing, and I'm going to go over this again, where we left
last time. We go over this. And again, to do this, and again, always in the teaching of
the Buddha and the lineage master has often said, when you practice meditating, studying,
contemplate on the teaching of the Buddha, it's always so important and necessary to
correct the motivations. Our motivation or our intention changes the direction of the
teaching or the practices. In Buddhism, teaching is like nectar. Teaching is like nectar. But
ever our motivation is not prepared to receive that nectar, then nectar won't walk exactly
as it should walk. So therefore, intention or the motivation is so important. And who
controls the motivation? No one else except one's own self. So that means I control my
motivation by me. And you control your motivation by you. There's no one else that's not second
person. We are, have the full capabilities, right and opportunities. So therefore, since
we are all interested, devoted to the Dharma, and therefore, we to make this more meaningful,
more powerful, more kind of strong and profound impact to ourself. And also some really helpful
to the others is the motivation of ourself. That motivation, what are those motivations?
Of course, we spoke and you all know this, we spoke and you all know, promulgated masters.
But those are the, this time is simple, is joy and apprehensions. Joy and appreciation,
being grateful, gratitude, being graceful. Second is bodhicitta. Everybody don't bodhicitta
the most simple way. It's low in kindness and compassion. With wisdom or intelligence,
that is bodhicitta. Mind of enlightenment, it has big name, mind of enlightenment. Truly
it is mind of enlightenment. When we reach enlightenment of bodhicitta, what will happen?
Our bodhicitta become full bloom, full billions without any restrictions of the dualities
and habit patterns. Full bloom of us like full moon of our bodhicitta, that is known
as enlightenment, Buddhahood. Goodhood. So that started right now. We have that. It's
our potential, our qualities, our richness. We're revealing that. Why we reveal? Make
ourself more profound and peaceful, beneficial and bring peace and happiness, harmony to
the body. The other means that is what bodhicitta is. Really. There's no other cause or reason
or third or fourth causes. Bodhicitta is all one package. That's what in the teaching
said. Oh, one technique. One technique, one powerful method. That is what. So therefore,
again, act very bodhicitta. Our bodhicitta, a lot of compassion has no boundaries or bodhicitta
has no boundaries, perversing all the beings of six realms. We went through that. I'm just
reminded that to us, to each other, it's not something that you don't know. I'm really
reminded for us. Really, genuinely, that attitude toward open our heart widely as a sky and
radiating that energy as a beam of light to every living beings. And we do that. Truly,
we are the very good practitioners. Simple, don't to the ground, but very effective. That's
what all the Buddhas, bodhisattvas did. You follow me? Perfectly input examples of the
footsteps or there's footsteps. So activated, that was beautiful. And then together with
this Vadiyana teaching, the purity, the ordinary nature, as everything is, the ordinary nature
or reality, where things are. Where things are, reality level, we know the disturbance
of the duality, habit pattern, everything is purely states. Subject is purely states, object
is purely states. Or if I use another terminology, subject is enlightened, object is in like
the states. You read those books. I'm sure you already read so many books and the books,
all that we, those in a tantra teaching explaining, right? Things are. So now we're going to
embarrassing
that view, that idea, that philosophy without the interference of the duality or the habit
patterns, skeptical, doubt, and hesitations. Just without any fear, F-E-A-R, fears jump
to this view, be in this status, enjoy. This state is full of love, joy, appreciation,
calm, peace, all the emotions, what we have just always disturbed by the emotions. It's
gone. It's gone. Even there's no trace. That's gone. So that is our really goal, to again
echo the very energy that started right now. It's not waiting for some time in the future.
Now is the time to activate that. So those are known as motivation, but same time it
is our practices, our meditation. These are cornerstones or the pillar of the practices.
We do some understanding and now we again, with those beautiful motivations and again
is just, we try to be all of us in those motivations. You and me, everyone, we are all
practitioners.
We all follow in the teachings according our best capabilities. Please so, activate those
from both sides. That means from my side and as well as from your side, activate it. Now
we go to the His Holiness teachings, that. And now we are in this, again, of course,
this is, in short, page two. Page two and third lines. Third lines we are. So what did
the teaching say? This is again the teachings on highlight of the poor treasures of the
practitioners. Poor treasures. All for wealth. All for richness of the practitioners. And
we have these poor in a tact and a precious status. We will be really good practitioners.
We will be truly bodhisattvas. All yogi and yoginis. Truly, not just a name. We are truly.
Why we know the status many times? Because our these poor treasures are fluctuating up
and down, up and down, and just all because of our dualities, habit patterns and the distractions
we engage in the world all the time. And so therefore, if we activate this, then truly
our practice of Dharma will be always fresh, new, never going to expire our intensity of
the joy and the appreciations. It will be fresh all the time. Just brand new, it really
will be brand new. But yet it will develop, progressing. All the realizations and signs
and result of the practices, the practitioners mentioned in the teaching will shine beautifully.
It's all shine. As much as it's shining, our heart and mind become calm, peaceful, more
courage, more commitment, more patient, down to the earth, more humble, more simple, more
sensible, more common senses. Now, all good things, what we explained and what we're talking
in the world in the samsara really will come naturally without any effort. Because we're
open to the treasures of our own richness, without the interference of the dualities
and habit patterns. What is definitely between duality and habit pattern? Habit pattern is
created by the dualities. It's not two different species. It's all connected, all created.
Habit pattern is developed by the duality and then we become more familiar with, familiar
of that duality activity, then it becomes the habit patterns, habitions. Then it becomes
so used to be, so easy. We don't have to make any kind of difficult troubles of the habit
patterns. It just flows. Why? According to the teaching, our habit pattern is not just
happened this lifetime. But it was a lifetime. So we have the full baggage of the habit patterns.
We are adding more habit patterns in these lives of that and then we become completely
saturated, sucked in the habit patterns and the dualities. We don't have to make any effort
of any of our habit pattern activities, such as emotions, anything. It just comes so suddenly,
so effortless. But on the other hand, our really treasures of the Bodhicata join appreciation,
calm and peaceful. How much we have to make effort? How much we have to make effort? Because
we're completely weak. Many of, I'm not saying we all, many of us, weak in all of those richness
because we couldn't reveal enough due to our interference of the ongoing habit patterns
and duality activities. So this time, by the teaching of the Buddha, it's actually, it's
like the coming on this head sports, shadow sports or head sports. The gracious kindness
and compassion, wise teacher, Buddha, lighted, shine, sport of this, our habit patterns. So
dispel and we built up, built up or rewirling our nature of beauty. Then you become calm
and peaceful. Those stages, what in the teaching now, named different levels of the Bhumis
or the path, is a development of how much we're rewirling our treasures, the old and
the pure treasures. That is what it is. So with those, again, a kind of just a reminder,
with those reminding of the some points and with this, now we go to the, this fourth point
or fourth richness of the, of the wealth of the practitioners. Here, what his only, we
just said here, as we translated that here, the reduction of the grasping due to the knowledge
that all compounding things are impermanent. In a bit, what I said here, do re matah lona
tung wah, tung wah. So that's it, do re. So that do re is translated here as a compounded,
compounded things, things. Matah means impermanent. Lona tung is here translated, reduce the
grasping
and reduce the grasping so to home or to where we reduce the grasping. To all this compounded,
compounded poems. Why we reducing grasping to the compounded? Because all is impermanent,
everything is impermanent. This impermanent topic, according to Buddhism, or in Buddhism
actually, is high light topics. Many times we think impermanent, oh, that's just casual.
It is casual. It is simple. It is basic. But yet it is so powerful, impermanent. And in
according to Buddha's teaching, the first his teaching, when he gave the Four Noble Truth
teaching, this is his teachings, impermanent. Four Noble Truths are, of course you all know,
again I just said these names, suffering truth, cause of suffering truth, cessation truth,
and path truth. Those are the Four Noble Truths. Now maybe you're wondering where is this imper
manent
that we mentioned in this Four Noble Truth. If you look carefully on the book, on the
teaching, teaching the ancient Four Noble Truth is divided into four subdivisions. Four subdiv
isions.
The fourth one, for example, suffering truth. What is the division? What is suffering truth?
Really, what is suffering truth? This is more philosophical level or reality level. Suffering
truth is impermanent. Suffering, and suffering truth is uncomfortable. And suffering truth
is emptiness, and suffering truth is egolessiness. That is subdivision of the Four, or not four,
the first Noble Truth, of the suffering truths. This, again, this first four three impermanent
and the suffering, or the challenge, and the emptiness, it is, and then, and egolessiness.
Those are the four, four divisions of the suffering truths. This four sufferings, this
division of the four suffering truths is also another name in the Buddha teaching. Seal
of the significance of the Buddhist doctrine is of the Buddha's teachings. Seal, the whole
mark, or mark, whole mark. Seal, S-E-A-L. Poor seals. What are those? And this is slightly
different. All compounded poems are impermanent. All emotions are challenges, and all phenomena
are preformed. The existing phenomena are all emptiness and egolessiness. Nirvana is
peaceful. That is, those are the poor seals of the, of the, that significance of the greatest
compactionist teachers. This is also, these are known as in the Buddhism, lines, roles.
Lines, roles, the role by the lines, those, the jungle kings, lines, roles. Why this name?
Because they are true. It's not believing, talks. This is reality, where things are.
You explain that and explore that reality, where things are. That is lines, role. Truth
is lines, role. Has no, any kind of force. You, every one, one, we can violate that it
is true or not. This is not just believing. You have to follow that. Oh, Buddha said,
we follow. That's what in Buddhism teaching said, blindfold following, or following with
blindfold. Validated that your own cognitions. What kind is true or not? So for example here,
all compounded things are impermanent. Here translated things, but all compounded poems
are impermanent. Why? Because they're compounded. They're not there before. It's all combination
of the cause and the conditions. And combination of the cause and the condition, producing
things. Where it's producing is cooperated in perfectly beautiful that which is known
as in Buddhism, interdependent systems. Interdependent. Interconnected systems. That everything is
interconnected systems. Everything. What that means? Subject and object, everything is inter
dependent,
everything's are. Yet it needs cause. It needs conditions. That cause is, there's no single
entity causes. Also so many combinations. So many entities come together as known as in
samsara we call cause. But it has so many entities. So many particles of that. That conditions.
Also not just the conditions. Solid one entity. So many particles. So many conditions are
cooperated perfectly to that cause. And developing things, coming things, and changing and
transforming,
moving forward. And that is known as impermanent. Everything. Therefore, impermanent, there's
two impermanents. In the samsara, those human beings see impermanent. And reality is happening
impermanent. Sometimes translated or in the teaching said, rakma matapa, travamata intubate.
And gross impermanent, subtle impermanent. Gross impermanent, we observe, we all see things.
Or it's changing, or it's changed. When something happens, or it's changed. We see. We don't
need any logics or the reasoning. Everybody knows. This is important, logic. But what
that actually means? It means changing. There's no solid structure or no pulse. P-A-U-S-E.
There's no pulse. Even one second, there's no pulse. Pulse is moving forward. That is
known as impermanent. Gross level. Everything is really in that status. What that tells,
according to Buddhism, it shows openness, emptiness. It's not true existence. That is illusion.
This illusion between me is bad. It's like magic. We watch magic shows, or this is magic.
But reality, magic is happening all the time. Now what we watch, and as well as watchers.
Watchers that watch, it's all in the magic states. For those reasons, so many great masters,
those were realizations. So less grasping. In his, his own great master, his own, Dunyur
Bhai said, reduce the grasping. The density of grasping, strength of grasping, reduce.
Because our grasping is so solid. So fixed. Fixed. But where we solid, where, what fixing?
Where we fixed? The reality level, everything is changing. When we fix something, then we
got to react. Then we got all the mental problems, psychological problems, emotional problems,
everything. Then we get really all those, so many difficult troubles and things. And
then that also react to our body and the physical. Everything become kind of like that. It's
almost unbalanced. Because where it started mostly is, precision of our grasping. Clinging
to our grasping, what we think that is. Then that. That's what all is. So this is gross
empowerment. And gross empowerment is that, as I said, is whole things. The whole, this
is like, for example, the day and the nights, and the year and the month. Those we know,
all this year changing. Month is changing. Day is changing. We think kind of that happened
there. But reality, it's happening every second or every instant. Incident, all that happened.
So those are the gross levels. Levels. Everybody knows that. But what we do, what we think
is only that time happened. Mostly we human beings think when that happened or that happened
just now, reality according to teaching, according to reasoning, it is really changing all the
time. So therefore, reduce the grasping. Gradually, reducing the grasping is fundamental practices.
The foundation of our practices. Graspingly. So that is what it will become. Our heart
becomes softer, calmer, more peaceful, and more tolerance or more patience. And then
also love and kindness, a kind of good energy will flow to our streams of the physical,
in the brains of the spirit. Then, subtle empowerment, how the measures, subtle impermanence
is measured, measured according to Buddhism said, for example, this snapping, one snapping
is divided at least 60, 60 portions. This snapping, that is gross levels. So this snapping,
how they divided this. According to ancient Buddhist logics, logics, for example, if you
put 60 petals, 60 lot of petals, and you put sharp needle. And when it put that sharp needle
from the top to the bottom, how long it takes in this, less than this duration of the one
snapping. That sharp needle went 60 different stages, one up another. It not just happened
one time at that. Even though we see as an incident happened, but it went 60 times. That's
the gross levels. Even some teaching said 360 petals and put that. So that means that
even though it's a second, like this snapping, that moment, how many instances are changing?
How many instances? How many the second or the moment is changing? It's just flash of
light. We cannot detect that. We cannot detect it. But reality is changing. That means it's
not permanent. It's not solid. Solid. It means it's completely openness, changing. This is
not just only this. In the modern time, maybe we use or I use this. I don't know exactly
connected that. For example, when we are here and calling to India, India, we go through
a belief satellite, whatever. But that talk, our talking went and reached one second. I
believe one second. So that means that one second, how many miles passed? India is not
right here. And I'm not right in India, but it reached that instant to India. And Vindetto
is reached to me. Incidentally, what that Mr. is, that means time and distance are illusion.
It's nothing really existed. For those reasons in the Buddha teaching said one instant transformed
in the eons, eons transformed in one instance. One atom pit whole universe and the universe
become one atoms. Those are very sophisticated teachings in Buddhism. See, the very teaching
is reality. It is, but through this modern technologies, we are simply exploring that
through technologies. But when we developed our mental capabilities, inner personal capabilities,
it is more powerful according to the teaching, more powerful, more profound, more vastness.
And therefore always in the teaching making is beyond of the explanations. It's inexpressible,
inconceivable. This is not just a making up things or trying to avoid that reality level.
It's so beyond the conceptions. But who will see that when you reach the full realization
of the enlightenment, then we see as it is. For those reasons in the Buddha teaching mentioned,
for example, said that like healthy young men, so the moment he extended the arms, that moment
like accelerate and bend, pull in, put in and pull in, that moment, Mongol putra went
around the universe, three thousand fold the universe, and they returned back to the same
sports. Or for example, in Jethavu Groves or Sharastha, one movement of the elbow, healthy
man or young man, young healthy man, or can be woman too, man and woman. But that moment,
because all in the teaching making, or it is, is beyond our measurement capabilities.
But more than time, the scientific, we're exploring this some degree of the Buddha teaching
making, such as talking to the other side of the world, that instant. So where is the
ground distant in the time? Where that gone? We cannot say, oh, India is right close here.
No. Or no, United States is close to India. It's all, it's all we use. The way things
are, it's just magical display. But all the way things are appeared on the right level
is interdependent coordinate systems. All connected, all connected, cooperating, and
existing, merging, reactivating, the flow is a continuations. There's nothing will stop
its continuations. From the beginning time until now, it will move that. But where that
happening? Oh, that happening within the vastness of space of emptiness, as magical. And never
lost those entities, our origin flavor of the emptiness. Everything is within this emptiness.
And for that reason, great teacher Buddha mentioned, poem is emptiness. Emptiness is
a poem. That's a true statement. It's true according Buddhism. You can violate it, because
now we see this impermanent. Where things are, really. Impermanent is so profound, so
powerful according Buddha's teaching. When you realize this impermanent, exactly as it
is, our grasping is gone. Our ego clinging is gone. And our joy and peace are just flashing
or coming as like spring waters. And everything is also see the emptiness. The flexibleness.
And things are changing. That open space, the flexibleness, there's no blockage. For
those reasons, the great Master Maharm would sit. If there is, in the universe, he's used
example, if there is such things existing, permanent, one atom. One atom of existing
permanent is solid without any changing. That will blow the whole functioning system of
the universe. It will blow that one, one fraction of the atoms is solid permanent, function
of the whole world. So that means, eventually, that's almost as important. We cannot speak
to each other. We cannot hear each other's. We cannot smell each other's. We cannot talk
to each other's. All our senses are blocked because the solids not moving. And then our
consciousness and everything. So reality, that means everything's so open, so flexible,
so movement. It's because this flexible openness of this way things are. This is what in Buddhism,
Buddhist teaching, this impermanent is not just a false statement, or it is not just
a kind of trying to terminate us. Trying to see things where things are. Exactly. Find
out exactly where things are. That is our responsibilities. Exactly where things are.
And also, those are the, like, according Buddhist kind of briefly, and just according Buddhism
doctrines. This is principles, doctrines in parliament. It is not just a character. Of
course, many times, in the teaching, mentioned this poor renouncing a thought, and break
his body. And impermanent and cause and effect is inevitable. And samsara has a lot of challenges.
We always, those are, we always talk. All is casual. It's all nearing hundred practices,
all that said. But reality, this is fundamental. Really, so powerful, so special. So special.
And then when you have the realizations of this, of the impermanent, we will appreciate
our lives, our friends, our family members, where we are together, as we, in the medulla
of the interdependent coordination, we really will appreciate. We thank for every time.
And grateful. We become beautiful human beings. Not flying in the sky, or kind of like going
through the wall. I'm not talking of those. But we become beautiful human beings, as Buddha
helped himself, himself. He was a perfect human being in the level. Humble, simple, drawn
to the earth. What he said, what he told, he followed with that, even he's enlightened.
That is what is. And now with those understand, so that really kind of talking about the subtle
impermanence. Now we talk kind of more practice level, how we practice of this. Always in the
teaching said, meditate on the impermanent. Those are in the teaching, great master, what
he said in the Kamsanilama Shalom, or words of my perfect teacher. That is what teacher
said. How you will meditate. And I will list it, and then you will look to the words of
my perfect teacher. You can look today. You can look and exactly follow that. I will list
how he said. The sense of impermanence is so important. Our grasping, clinging is so hard.
It don't connect very well. It really don't connect. It's always like hard balls. Hard
balls. It's just like impermanent is the way things are. But our hard ball, ego clinging,
grasping is hard ball, and it just don't penetrate that to our ego clinging or our grasping.
So therefore, we think more kind of in the practice level, intellectually analytic way
to remembering of this impermanent. How those are in the teaching said. Reflecting the mind
to the universe, it is impermanent. Reflecting the mind to the universe. Or if I say world,
W-O-R-R-L-D-R, world. See things. And then secondly, reflecting the impermanent, inhabitant
of the world. World who lives in that world. And then reflecting the mind, mind of the
impermanent over all the noble beings. All holy beings. Reflecting. And third, fourth,
reflecting the impermanent over the old powerful persons. Powerful persons in this universe.
And then reflecting the impermanent. And reflecting the impermanent variety of the examples and
the meanings. And reflecting the impermanent meditation over, over the, and every, our,
then now to, so those are more kind of externally to look into all. But they look to ourself,
one's own self. Reflecting ourself. Ourself, also meditation on ourself or reflecting the
meditation to ourself, each of ourself. Self. And the, and the reflecting strongly, reflecting
the meditation strongly to the impermanent. So those are highlighted by great master,
the popular, popular movies. In the Kumsnailama shalom or world's my perfect teachers. And
so now what that means, I mean, you will know when you read the book, which is a very popular
book and you will see, but, oh, this means the universe is not permanent. Even though
it looks so solid, it's so strong and all that, according Buddhism, it came. It's here
now, but it will go away according Buddhism. Really going. So all this universe is subject
within the impermanent. And then all the beings who lives in this world, they are not all permanent
.
How many things, generations, civilizations changed that we read his stories from the
beginning time as recorded. All the stone age, iron age, all those so many, many really
explanations that you all know. That means it changed. It went one after another. And
all inhabitants and different countries and how many things changed? There's no ever existing
anything generally thinking of this all inhabitants of the being. And then we've called the holy
beings. That means such a great beings, those beings or those in the accord in the teaching
we like story we read, they flew in the sky. They transformed fire into the water, water
into the fire. One item for many items, many items, one pieces. They changed. They have
such a, those capabilities, capabilities. And there's a story in the world, my perfect
teacher, whenever you look that there's like one more time, Malarepa is doing meditation
on the caves, caves. I'm not want them. When Malarepa is meditating in the caves, some
hundreds came because he's not moving at all, not doing any responding, not moving at all.
They thought, they thought is kind of demons, something very kind of also the very strong
looking that. And they come closely and they are again trying to speak with never corresponded
or responded. And then they hold and throw in the, in the cliffs outside. And moment
they throw, great master come back to the same sport. They did many times like that.
So they couldn't do anything in end. So this is one of the examples of that. And there's
so many stories of the Buddhism and as well as other religions too. There's so many stories,
those holy beings really perform so many unbelievable activities. They have power, they have
capabilities.
Mostly everything is under their command, their wishes, but yet all become as merely
historians or merely in the memories, one after another. There's no exceptions. How things
that. And then in the teachings, the power of religion teaching said, said all the power
of beings, reflecting the power of beings, how they are like, well, they are ruling,
well, they are alive. The whole world is trembling of their powers, their dominance, their
identities,
their stentors. But then, left so quietly. So that's it. There's nothing can prevent
them. They can't go. So that way, check after one after another. Really it's so clear. So
this is the way the world is. That's the way all the subjects are, objects are. This. For
that reason, reason, he always said, reflected the impermanence. That is not just making
us a burden, but we are light, light and shedding on our dark corners of the knowledge. We think
so. It really will help. So now with this, again, what he said, when you have the realization
of the impermanent, we need to understand, then our Dharma practice will go smooth. We
are grounded. When we joined what's called four garlands of the teachings by the Gampopa
and the Lungchimpa, one said, may my mind turn to the Dharma. Why this statement is?
When you have the realization of this poor, this impermanent, and with all of those theories,
your mind is really like intro to Dharma. The prayer is answered. That time, mind, we see
it truly as it is. So what that will become? Our mind or our heart become more subtle,
calmer, peaceful. As I said earlier, when that happened, all our wisdom begin to shine.
We become more sensible, with full common senses, more kind, more love and compassion,
more kind to ourself, one's own self, kind to the others. That is, then he really is
harmonious peace. Then it can't be done. Everything comes so perfectly. And so that is what is
really impermanent. But again, now I go. This is what I've listed as a great master, great
master, his only dungeon said. First is devotion. Second is the affection to the Sangha
practitioners.
And the third is compassion and loving kindness to all the beings of six realms and then always
have less graspings, trying to less graspings. And because intellectually, on a practical
level, nothing is really lasting forever, therefore more calm and peaceful, open heart,
relaxed, and not so tense with anything that we just can't more relax. And if we do that,
it will really make, then our, as I said, our mind will turn to the Dharma, remind it, turn to the
Dharma,
then what it will bring? It will bring calm and peaceful. Then that is also in the Buddha teaching
named the discipline, one's own mind. This will discipline one's own mind. What in the end with
which I always, that is my teaching, what the gracious teacher said. That is my time teaching.
Teaching, when your mind is tamed or when our mind is tamed, then we touch the essence of the
teaching and we are touching to the essence of our heart and our nature. Then all the
realization and progress really will come so beautifully and perfectly. And that is my talk
for today. Thank you very much again for the participation. And again, thank you very much.
And I just thought to tell you that the studies change schedules. Next Sunday, we won't have
teaching or my talk will be postponed to the following Sunday. And the next Sunday is the
anniversary of the, our great teacher, Kentin Pardin Rambo, he's a Mahaparin Rana. What?
- Friday the 19th. - Oh, Friday the 19th. Sorry, sorry. I mixed it up. - Saturday the 19th. - What?
- Saturday the 19th. - Saturday the 19th. So we won't have the
teaching. Saturday the 19th, we won't have the teachings, okay? I thought we'd change that
schedules then. And thank you. Then we have the practice, of course, practice and commemorating
of the anniversary of Kentin Pardin Rambo, which is Mahaparin Rana. Thank you very much everyone
for the presentations. And now we do short dedication that concluded our first session.
And then we started our practices, healing practice. Thank you.
- Again, if you have this booklet and it's very beginning. Beginning, we're going to do one short
phrase. That is page 23, 32, sorry, 32. Page 32. By this merit, may all obtain the omission,
may it be defeated that enemy wrongdoing. From the stern webs of the earth, all you need is
sick of the death. From the ocean of the samsara, may I pray you all be.